# Assessment 2



_Students must receive a score of 7/8 to proceed. All questions are multiple choice questions and there could be one or more possible correct answers._

1. What may happen if a node does not notify other nodes about a transaction?
   1. Another transaction may spend the same coins and the node’s block may be rejected.  ✓
   2. Other nodes are completely unable to verify the block containing that transaction once it is propagated to the network.&#x20;
   3. Blocks generated by the node containing it may be rejected as a double spend.  ✓
   4. All of the above.&#x20;
2. Why does a node need to be able to receive a block as quickly as possible?
   1. For its own verification.&#x20;
   2. Since energy that is spent building upon a superseded block is wasted.&#x20;
   3. To keep its own blocks from potentially being invalid.&#x20;
   4. All of the above.  ✓&#x20;
3. **Nodes need to make sure that other nodes on the network become aware of their \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ in order to have the best chance of  \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ as part of the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_.**
   1. presence on the network, forming dense connections, Small World Network&#x20;
   2. block proposals, being validated, blockchain '
   3. noticed transactions, nodes connecting to it, small world network&#x20;
   4. block immediately, it being built upon, longest proof of work chain  ✓
4. **Transaction inputs using particular \_\_\_\_\_\_ can be sorted into specific optimized pipelines. Once the inputs have been validated, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_and \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ to the block template.**
   1. scriptSig, the transactions is reassembled, its hash added&#x20;
   2. Template types, the transaction is valid, appended  ✓
   3. Outputs, the inputs, outputs are added&#x20;
   4. Templates, the templates are reassembled, added
5. **What can payment channels allow for?**
   1. Cumulative small payments.&#x20;
   2. Periodic settlement based on usage instead of subscription.&#x20;
   3. Paying only for what you consume of a service or product.&#x20;
   4. All of the above ✓&#x20;
6. **What is a node’s primary function?**
   1. A blockchain network monitoring service.
   2. A backbone for financial services providers.
   3. A transaction validator and timestamper.  ✓
   4. All of the above.&#x20;
7. **What are blocks?**
   1. The output of the network’s transaction validation engines.
   2. Timestamped records of transactions.  ✓
   3. The first line of defense against double spends.&#x20;
   4. All of the above.&#x20;
8. **Bitcoin's economics are finely tuned and \_\_\_\_\_\_ can negatively impact network performance. For this reason Bitcoin must be built and operated as \_\_\_\_\_\_ with work instead focused on building \_\_\_\_\_\_\_.**
   1. dishonest behavior, transparently as possible, trust and simplicity&#x20;
   2. large scale utilization, settlement layer, alternative methods of scaling Bitcoin&#x20;
   3. minor protocol changes, infrastructure,  advanced node client technologies  ✓
   4. improper usage, a security protocol, methods to prevent attacks on the network&#x20;
