# Introduction

As we look back at the rapid change that has taken place across the fields of information technology, payment services and finance over the last few decades it's easy to identify a pattern of increasing digitisation of systems formerly dominated by paper.

From letters to email, cheques to EFTPOS, wet ink to digital signatures and printed paper to digital files, as water soaks into a sponge digital technology has seeped into every tool we use to manage the course of our personal and business relationships.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/XLTjidA6JNs" %}

As Bitcoin has emerged over the last decade, much hype has been made about the prospect of it acting as a technology layer to facilitate the further disintermediation of our digital financial and data activities. The network's success heralds a move from a system where ledgers held by each business or institution are kept as separate records reconciled periodically at great effort and expense, to a new paradigm where a global network of third-party nodes manages a single ledger of all business activities. The ledger's scale and efficiency mean transaction costs can be reduced to heretofore unseen levels providing ways to take separate payment at the micro-amounts for fully individualised services. Correct use of the ledger can facilitate triple entry accounting leaving a single record all parties to a transaction can reference and allowing for rapid single-click audit systems synchronised to the second.

When examining alternatives to Bitcoin in the blockchain/digital currency landscape, it can be difficult to disambiguate the wide variety of systems that have been developed to manage public ledgers and challenging to discern whether a project is able to manage the levels of activity that could be generated by its open and unbounded use by enterprise and government.

At the same time, it can be quite easy to see where projects are nothing more than well branded schemes for groups of early insiders to get rich hyping vapourware to naive retail investors in an unregulated market.

BSVs follows first principles of Bitcoin's design to act as a high performance, reliable and low-cost public network and ledger. The protocol is unbounded and provides us with an opportunity to provide high-speed, low cost financial, communication, data and technology services on a global scale.

BSV Blockchain is not an exclusive system that only the wealthy or the early can use, but a general-purpose network and ledger usable by all people as a backbone for communication, education and commerce. BSV, as the network implementation that manages the Bitcoin ledger, eschews the 'blockchain' industry narrative of pure speculation as 'investment', focusing solely on building for performance. BSV Blockchain is privately owned infrastructure, available to the public 24/7/365, and works much faster and for a tiny fraction of the cost of the multitude of legacy systems needed to replicate just a small part of its native functionality.
